n ruby gem document server file class method
gem server
http://localhost:8808/


nb ruby tool category count github source watcher fork
http://ruby-toolbox.com/

Ruby developers can choose from a variety of tools to get their job done.
The Ruby Toolbox gives you an overview of these tools, sorted in categories
and rated by the amount of watchers and forks in the corresponding source
code repository on GitHub so you can find out easily what options you have
and which are the most common ones in the Ruby community.


nb quark scale space video
From quarks to outer space.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPumskk1dGk

This video depicts the relative scale of things and the Universe in
factors of ten.  We start with the smallest things that science knows.
Each following image is in scale ten times larger than the preceding one.


nb work progress wip limit ready working kanban tool work flow history
Kim, S. 20100724.  Continuous yak shaving—Lessons learned.
Skim: Software apprenticeship.
http://skim.cc/2010/07/24/continuous-yak-shaving/

With respect to working on multiple stories, I find that setting work-
in-progress limits for "working" and "ready" stories keeps me from
thrashing too much.  With a working limit of two, a third thing pushes
one working thing back to ready; and with a ready limit of five, another
family of stories has no place and gets pushed back to backlog.
I think WIP limits are really the heart of kanban: most other systems
let you get overburdened and distracted, since they don't respect
humans' limited attention span and tendency to thrash.  For example,
with ten-points-worth of stories open in the current iteration, none
might actually get done until the final day of the iteration, since you
don't have to close out one story to make space to do another.
I also like that the kanban tools tend to quietly analyze workflow
instead of trying to record estimates: after a while you tend to break
down things instinctively into categories of work, and after-the-fact
analysis tells you how well you usually perform the category of work
you're doing.


nb frink unit measure calculate programming language
http://futureboy.homeip.net/frinkdocs/

Tracks units of measure (feet, meters, tons, dollars, watts, etc.) through
all calculations and allows you to add, subtract, multiply, and divide them
effortlessly, and makes sure the answer comes out correct, even if you mix
units like gallons and liters.  Arbitrary-precision math, including huge
integers and floating-point numbers, rational numbers (that is, fractions
like 1/3 are kept without loss of precision), complex numbers,
and intervals.  Advanced mathematical functions including trigonometric
functions (even for complex numbers), factoring and primality testing, and
base conversions.  Unit conversion between thousands of unit types with a
huge built-in data file.  Date/time math (add offsets to dates, find out
intervals between times), timezone conversions, and user-modifiable
date formats.  Translates between several human languages, including
English, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch, Korean, Japanese,
Russian, Chinese, Swedish, and Arabic.  Calculates historical buying power
of the U.S.  dollar and British pound.  Calculates exchange rates between
most of the world's currencies.  Powerful Perl-like regular expression
capabilities and text processing.  Supports Unicode throughout, allowing
processing of almost all of the world's languages.  Supports interval
arithmetic (also known as interval computations) in calculations, allowing
you to automagically calculate error bounds and uncertainties in all of
your calculations.  Reads HTTP and FTP-based URLs as easily as reading
local files, allowing fetching of live web-based data.  Runs on most major
operating systems (anything with Java 1.1 or later), as an applet, through
a web-based interface, on a wireless Palm VII, on an HDML- or WML-based
webphone, and on many mobile phones and hand-held devices.  Installs itself
on your system in seconds using Java Web Start and automatically keeps
itself updated when new versions of Frink are released.  Runs with a
Graphical User Interface (Swing, AWT, and Android) or a command-line interface.
User interface has a Programming Mode which allows you to write, edit,
save, and run extremely powerful programs even on a handheld device.
Frink has a simple but powerful system for drawing graphics which are
resizable, support transparency and anti-aliasing, and can be printed or
written to image files.  Graphics can also have exact lengths, so that a
3-centimeter line is three centimeters long when printed.  Powers Frink
Server Pages, a system for providing dynamic web pages powered by Frink.
Frink is a full-fledged programming language with arrays, dictionaries,
sets, functions, loops, even object-oriented programming and self-evaluation.
Frink allows Object-Oriented Programming, which allows you to create
complex data structures that are still easy to use.  Java introspection
layer allows you to call any Java code from within Frink.  Frink can also
be embedded in a Java program, giving your Java programs all the power of Frink.
Did I mention it's free?  If you find it useful, please donate something.
I'd really appreciate it!
