nb git reference
http://gitref.org/

Getting and creating projects: init, clone.
Basic snapshotting: add, status, diff, commit, reset, rm, mv.
Branching and merging: branch, checkout, merge, log, tag.
Sharing and updating projects: fetch, pull, push, remote.
Inspection and comparison: log, diff.


nb defend sql injection attack asp coldfusion c# delphi .net java perl php postgresql python ruby scheme xkcd
http://bobby-tables.com/

There is only one way to avoid Bobby Tables attacks: do not create SQL
statements that include outside data, and use parameterized SQL calls.
That's it.  Don't try to escape invalid characters.  Don't try to do it yourself.
Learn how to use parameterized statements.  Always, every single time.
Examples in ASP, ColdFusion, C#, Delphi, .NET, Java, Perl, PHP,
PostgreSQL, Python, Ruby, and Scheme.


nb memprof memory profile ruby gem rvm rewrite binary allocate object collect garbage dump heap upload
http://memprof.com/

What is memprof?  memprof is an open source Ruby gem that provides
useful data about memory & performance for MRI-based Ruby VMs.
It uses various binary rewriting techniques to insert hooks into the
running Ruby process, allowing you to collect data without having to run
a patched Ruby installation.  Currently, memprof provides data about
object allocation, garbage collection, and full dumps of the Ruby heap.
A heap dump is essentially a 'snapshot' of the live objects in your Ruby
process at any point in time.

What is memprof.com?  memprof.com is a tool for analyzing uploaded
memprof dumps of the Ruby heap.  It is primarily useful for finding
memory leaks in Ruby applications.  You can: view objects grouped by
type or file of origin, view ruby class hierarchies, view the age of a
given object, traverse object references, examine internal object
details, and so on.


nb w3c css2 box model dimension margin pad border property
World wide web consortium.  20090908.  Box model.
Cascading style sheets level 2 revision 1 (CSS 2.1) specification.
http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/box.html

Box dimensions.  Example of margins, padding, and borders.
Margin properties; collapsing margins.  Padding properties.
Border properties: border width; border color; border style; border
shorthand properties.  The box model for inline elements in
bidirectional context.
