nb music crowd fan fund reward incentive contribute level kickstarter rockethub artistshare @cdbaby
CD Baby.  20100624.  Is fan funding the future of the music business?
CD Baby: The DIY musician.
http://diymusician.cdbaby.com/2010/06/is-fan-funding-the-future-of-the-music-business/

As the artist, you determine a goal amount (the money you hope to
raise), a time limit (the time in which you hope to achieve your goal—
between 1–90 days), and what rewards or incentives you are going to
offer your contributors.  You can offer different rewards for different
levels of contribution.  Fans can make pledges until the end of your
time limit, at which point your goal will either be reached or not.
If it is, the contributors’ credit cards are charged and you get the
money to start your project.  If it’s not reached, all pledges are cancelled.
It’s an all-or-nothing system.  If your goal is met, Kickstarter takes
5% of your total, and you are solely responsible for getting the rewards
to your contributors as promised.


nb phrase zeugma reference rhetoric poetic device
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeugma

Zeugma (from the Greek: ζεῦγμα, zeûgma, meaning "yoke") is a figure of
speech describing the joining of two or more parts of a sentence with a
single common verb or noun.  A zeugma employs both ellipsis, the
omission of words which are easily understood, and parallelism, the
balance of several words or phrases.  The result is a series of similar
phrases joined or yoked together by a common and implied noun or verb.
A syllepsis is a particular kind of zeugma, and there is a clear
distinction between the two in classical treatises written on the subject.
Henry Peacham praises the “delight of the ear” in the use of the zeugma
in rhetoric, but stresses that “too many clauses" should be avoided.
The zeugma is categorized according to the location and part of speech
of the governing word.


nb lego futurama mattdelanoy
World of 'Futurama' rebuilt in Legos
http://news.cnet.com/8301-17938_105-20009439-1.html?part=rss&amp;subj=news&amp;tag=2547-1_3-0-20


nb nuclear bomb starfish prime extend van allen particle reaction color video audio
Krulwich, R. -20100701.  A very scary light show: Exploding H-bombs in space.
NPR: Science.
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=128170775&f=1001

The Americans launched their first atomic nuclear tests above the
Earth's atmosphere in 1958.  Atom bombs had little effect on the
magnetosphere, but the hydrogen bomb of July 9, 1962, did.
Code-named "Starfish Prime" by the military, it literally created an artificial extension of the Van Allen belts that could be seen across the Pacific Ocean, from Hawaii to New Zealand.

Why Starfish Prime created rainbow skies.  To understand where the
colors come from in Starfish Prime, you first have to know a little bit
about Earth's atmosphere.  Nitrogen and oxygen are the two most abundant
gases in our air.  The concentration of each gas is different depending
on the altitude.  When Starfish Prime detonated, charged particles—
electrons—were released from the explosion.  According to NASA
astrophysicist David Sibeck, those particles came streaming down through
the Earth's atmosphere, energizing oxygen and nitrogen atoms, causing
them to glow in different colors.  But why?  As electrons collide with
the atoms, energy is transferred to the atoms.  After holding onto it
for a moment, the excess energy is released as light.  When many excited
atoms release energy together, the light is visible to the naked eye.
Depending on the type of atom and the number of atoms, you get different colors.
It's similar to what causes the aurora borealis, although those
electrons are coming from the solar wind pounding into Earth.
The electrons first encounter a high concentration of oxygen at the
upper reaches of Earth's atmosphere, causing the atoms to release a red light.
Then green appears as the electrons travel to lower altitudes where
there are fewer oxygen atoms.  Even lower, where more nitrogen atoms are
present, the collisions throw off a blue light.  But in the Starfish
Prime explosion, charged particles went in every direction.  That's why
you see the sky filled with a rainbow of colors nearly all at once in
the footage.―Meagen Voss


nb haskell programming puzzle contest icfp 2010 retrospective trit circuit trinary code car engine build fuel
http://r6.ca/blog/20100627T195027Z.html


nb people believe institutionalize boundary jazz quote doncherry
When people believe in boundaries, they become part of them.
